feat(documentation) 2022 Recap Newsletter (#5886)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2023/01/2023-01-11-jenkins-newsletter.adoc

---
layout: post
title: "Jenkins 2022 Recap"
tags:
- jenkins
- newsletter
- community
- contribute

> authors:
> - alyssat

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authors:
- alyssat
- kmartens27
```

opengraph:
image: /images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/Recap.png
links:
discourse: true
---

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/Recap.png[Jenkins 2022 recap Newsletter]

2022 was a fruitful year for Jenkins!
Across the Jenkins project, we experienced growth and strong contributions.

> We want to share deep gratitude to the corporate sponsorships and individual contributions, as this made it possible to take Jenkins to the next level.
> We also look forward to welcoming new friends to collaborate with us in working together to make Jenkins better. 
> There's still a lot to be done within the project, and in 2023 we plan on integrating many more improvements in while sustaining a diversified, inclusive, and welcoming community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We want to share deep gratitude to the corporate sponsorships and individual contributions that made it possible to take Jenkins to the next level.
We also look forward to welcoming new friends to collaborate with us in working together to make Jenkins even better. 
There's still a lot to do within the project, and in 2023, we plan to integrate many more improvements, while sustaining a diversified, inclusive, and welcoming community.
```
updates from @b-fisher-cb suggestions

Happy reading!

Got Inspiration?
We would love to highlight your cool Jenkins innovations.

> Share https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScMCGOMtn2hGpfXsbyssGhVW1LwlW4LkXCIaKINKDQU2m6ieg/viewform[your story] and you could be in the next Jenkins newsletter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Share https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScMCGOMtn2hGpfXsbyssGhVW1LwlW4LkXCIaKINKDQU2m6ieg/viewform[your story], and you could be in the next Jenkins newsletter.
```
update from @b-fisher-cb suggestions

== Highlights

> * Welcome Dr. Ullrich Hafner, Alexander Brandes, and Kevin Martens as new members to the governance board and documentation officer respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Welcome Dr. Ullrich Hafner, Alexander Brandes, and Kevin Martens as new members to the governance board and documentation officer, respectively.
```
update from @b-fisher-cb suggestions

* Platform modernization including:
** Requiring Java 11, with https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/12/14/require-java-11/[build toolchain changes] arriving in parent pom 4.52.
** Fully supporting Java 17

> ** An new UI complete with updates such as icons, themes, and navigation menus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** A new UI, complete with updated icons, themes, and navigation menus.
```
updates from @b-fisher-cb suggestions

* The Pipeline Steps reference guide has been improved in both functionality and appearance, reducing the page load.
* General availability for the Jenkins custom rules in link:https://groups.google.com/g/jenkinsci-dev/c/OMe_zN8-Tkc/m/5Tf0OnNWAgAJ[CodeQL].
* Jenkins in GSoC 2023 is accepting project ideas and volunteer mentors.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/Governance.png[Governance Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/MarkEWaite[Mark Waite]

The Jenkins governance board thanks Ewelina Wilkosz and Gavin Mogan for their two years of service as board members.
We're so glad to have talented people serve on the Jenkins governance board.

> December 2022 brings two new members to the Jenkins governance board.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
December 2022 brought two new members to the Jenkins governance board.
```
update from @b-fisher-cb suggestions

We welcome Dr. Ullrich Hafner of the Department of Computer Science and Mathematics at the Munich University of Applied Sciences as a new member of the board.
In his role as professor, he tries to win new Jenkins contributors by letting students develop new features and test cases in their student projects and theses.
He has been an active contributor in the Jenkins project since 2007, mostly in the acceptance test harness and the static code analysis suite (which is now replaced by the Warnings Next Generation Plugin).

image:/images/avatars/uhafner.jpg[image,width=230,height=230]

We also welcome Alexander Brandes as a new member of the board.
Alexander is a maintainer for Jenkins core and the maintainer of the link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/jobConfigHistory/[Job Configuration History] and link:https://plugins.jenkins.io/ionicons-api/[Ionicons API] plugins.

He is a release team member and actively involved in the process of releasing Jenkins weekly and long term support (LTS) builds.
He served as release lead for five of the twelve Jenkins LTS releases in 2022.

In addition to two new members of the governance board, we welcome the new documentation officer, Kevin Martens.

> Kevin leads the Documentation office hours, reviews and merges documentation pull requests, and is actively involved in Jenkins special interest groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kevin leads Jenkins documentation office hours, reviews and merges documentation pull requests, and is actively involved in Jenkins special interest groups.
```
update from @b-fisher-cb suggestions

image:/images/avatars/kmartens27.jpeg[image,width=230,height=230]

We're grateful for the Jenkins officers that will be continuing their service for another year, including:

* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/timja/[Tim Jacomb] - Release Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/wadeck/[Wadeck Follonier] - Security Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/dduportal/[Damien Duportal] - Infrastructure Officer
* https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/alyssat/[Alyssa Tong] - Events Officer

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/Security.png[Security Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/Wadeck[Wadeck Follonier]

The Jenkins security team was incredibly active this year, not only in resolving security concerns, but also providing insight to users through security advisories.
The information below provides overall statistics from the Security team in 2022.

=== Publication

* link:https://www.jenkins.io/security/advisories/#2022[16 Security advisories] (stable year over year).
** Only 5 impacting Jenkins core (also stable).
* Around 400 CVEs published, which was more than all previous years.

=== Day to day:

> * Around 580 SECURITY tickets handled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Approximately 580 SECURITY tickets handled.
```
update from @b-fisher-cb suggestions

** Which is ~20% of the total number of tickets since 2009.
* Around 70 hosting requests proactively audited (introduced in Q2 of 2022).
* Around 80 UI related PRs audited in Jenkins core (introduced in Q3 of 2022).

> We have even more CVEs with a name such as link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965], to analyze and understand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have even more CVEs with a name, such as link:https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965], to analyze and understand.
```
update from @b-fisher-cb suggestions

This will make the plugin localization process easier, allowing for any user to contribute to localizing plugin documentation.
link:https://crowdin.jenkins.io/[This page] shows the plugins that have localization work currently open.
It also provides some insight as to how many changes have been made and how many people have been contributing to the project.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/Jenkins Crowdin.png[Jenkins Crowdin]

=== UTF-8 encoding

The Jenkins project also updated how it reads jelly files, making the transition to using UTF-8.
This was possible once the transition to Java 11 completed.
By utilizing UTF-8, developers and users can build more reliably and have modern property files read correctly.
This also aligns Jenkins' ability to read different types of property files, provided the encoding is the same.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/UI_UX.png[User Experience Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/MarkEWaite[Mark Waite]

> Jenkins LTS and weekly releases in 2022 have included significant user experience improvements thanks to the work of Jan Faracik, Tim Jacomb, Alex Brandes, Daniel Beck, and many others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Jenkins LTS and weekly releases in 2022 included significant user experience improvements thanks to the work of Jan Faracik, Tim Jacomb, Alex Brandes, Daniel Beck, and many others.
```

> Table layouts, menu entries, icons, themes, breadcrumbs, and more have been updated to give Jenkins a new, fresh look in 2022.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Table layouts, menu entries, icons, themes, breadcrumbs, and more were updated to give Jenkins a new, fresh look in 2022.
```

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/jenkins modern look.png[jenkins modern look]

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/jenkins modern look 2.png[jenkins modern look 2]

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/Jenkins io improvements.png[Jenkins io improvements Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/kmartens27[Kevin Martens]

This year, the Jenkins project saw documentation contributions from new and seasoned Jenkins users.
These contributions included blog posts, documentation additions and updates, documentation migration, and other improvements.
All of this has helped expand and empower the Jenkins community.

Over the year, Jenkins project saw 48 blog posts, submitted by 23 different authors.

> There was a total of 814 contributions throughout 2022.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There were 814 contributions throughout 2022.
```

> These contributions are a result of the community, and collaboration with various projects throughout the year such as She Code Africa, Google Summer of Code, and Hacktoberfest.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These contributions are a result of the community and collaboration with various projects throughout the year, such as She Code Africa, Google Summer of Code, and Hacktoberfest.
```

The updates include search functionality, UI improvements, and a reduction in page load.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/image5.png[image,width=624,height=388]

=== Algolia search

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/image6.png[image,width=275,height=52]

The Jenkins site search has been updated to use the latest version of https://www.algolia.com/[Algolia].
We want to recognize and thank https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/halkeye/[Gavin Mogan] for all of his work on this and Algolia for donating the search functionality.
The site search now provides more relevant results and suggestions for users.
A visual update was included as part of the upgrade, resulting in the new look and UI.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/image7.png[image,width=363,height=317]

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/Outreach and advocacy.png[Outreach and advocacy Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/alyssat[Alyssa Tong]

In 2022, the Jenkins project was able to collaborate on and complete several projects.

> This includes launching two new sites for community engagement and involvement:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This included launching two new sites for community engagement and involvement:
```

This will make the plugin localization process easier, allowing for any user to contribute to localizing plugin documentation.
link:https://crowdin.jenkins.io/[This page] shows the plugins that have localization work currently open.
It also provides some insight as to how many changes have been made and how many people have been contributing to the project.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/Jenkins Crowdin.png[Jenkins Crowdin]

=== UTF-8 encoding

The Jenkins project also updated how it reads jelly files, making the transition to using UTF-8.
This was possible once the transition to Java 11 completed.
By utilizing UTF-8, developers and users can build more reliably and have modern property files read correctly.
This also aligns Jenkins' ability to read different types of property files, provided the encoding is the same.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/UI_UX.png[User Experience Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/MarkEWaite[Mark Waite]

> Jenkins LTS and weekly releases in 2022 have included significant user experience improvements thanks to the work of Jan Faracik, Tim Jacomb, Alex Brandes, Daniel Beck, and many others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jenkins LTS and weekly releases in 2022 included significant user experience improvements thanks to the work of Jan Faracik, Tim Jacomb, Alex Brandes, Daniel Beck, and many others.
```
suggestion from @b-fisher-cb

> Table layouts, menu entries, icons, themes, breadcrumbs, and more have been updated to give Jenkins a new, fresh look in 2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Table layouts, menu entries, icons, themes, breadcrumbs, and more were updated to give Jenkins a new, fresh look in 2022.
```
update from @b-fisher-cb suggestions

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/jenkins modern look.png[jenkins modern look]

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/jenkins modern look 2.png[jenkins modern look 2]

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/Jenkins io improvements.png[Jenkins io improvements Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/kmartens27[Kevin Martens]

This year, the Jenkins project saw documentation contributions from new and seasoned Jenkins users.
These contributions included blog posts, documentation additions and updates, documentation migration, and other improvements.
All of this has helped expand and empower the Jenkins community.

Over the year, Jenkins project saw 48 blog posts, submitted by 23 different authors.

> There was a total of 814 contributions throughout 2022.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There were 814 contributions throughout 2022.
```
update from @b-fisher-cb suggestions

> These contributions are a result of the community, and collaboration with various projects throughout the year such as She Code Africa, Google Summer of Code, and Hacktoberfest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These contributions are a result of the community and collaboration with various projects throughout the year, such as She Code Africa, Google Summer of Code, and Hacktoberfest.
```
update from @b-fisher-cb suggestions

The updates include search functionality, UI improvements, and a reduction in page load.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/image5.png[image,width=624,height=388]

=== Algolia search

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/image6.png[image,width=275,height=52]

The Jenkins site search has been updated to use the latest version of https://www.algolia.com/[Algolia].
We want to recognize and thank https://www.jenkins.io/blog/authors/halkeye/[Gavin Mogan] for all of his work on this and Algolia for donating the search functionality.
The site search now provides more relevant results and suggestions for users.
A visual update was included as part of the upgrade, resulting in the new look and UI.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/image7.png[image,width=363,height=317]

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/11/jenkins-newsletter/Outreach and advocacy.png[Outreach and advocacy Update]

Contributed by: https://github.com/alyssat[Alyssa Tong]

In 2022, the Jenkins project was able to collaborate on and complete several projects.

> This includes launching two new sites for community engagement and involvement:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This included launching two new sites for community engagement and involvement:
```
update from @b-fisher-cb suggestions

He has been an active contributor in the Jenkins project since 2007, mostly in the acceptance test harness and the static code analysis suite (which is now replaced by the plugin:warnings-ng[Warnings Next Generation Plugin]).

image:/images/avatars/uhafner.jpg[image,width=230,height=230]

We also welcome link:https://github.com/NotMyFault[Alexander Brandes] as a new member of the board.
Alexander is a Jenkins core maintainer and the maintainer of the plugin:jobConfigHistory[Job Configuration History] and plugin:ionicons-api[Ionicons API] plugins.

He is a release team member and actively involved in Jenkins long term support releases and weekly releases.
He served as release lead for five of the twelve Jenkins LTS releases in 2022.

In addition to two new members of the governance board, we welcome the new documentation officer, author:kmartens27[Kevin Martens].
Kevin leads Jenkins documentation office hours, reviews and merges documentation pull requests, and is actively involved in Jenkins special interest groups.

image:/images/avatars/kmartens27.jpeg[image,width=230,height=230]

> We're grateful for the Jenkins officers that will be continuing their service for another year, including:

Author: I'm not so sure about this one, anyone able to help?

> We're grateful for the Jenkins officers that will be continuing their service for another year, including:

Reviewer: @lemeurherve is right on this one, it should be "are" here, as opposed to "will be"

* author:timja[Tim Jacomb] - Release Officer
* author:wadeck[Wadeck Follonier] - Security Officer
* author:dduportal[Damien Duportal] - Infrastructure Officer
* author:alyssat[Alyssa Tong] - Events Officer

[[security-fixes]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/security.png[Security Update]

Contributed by: author:wadeck[Wadeck Follonier]

The Jenkins security team was incredibly active this year, not only in resolving security concerns, but also providing insight to users through security advisories.
The information below provides overall statistics from the Security team in 2022.

=== Publication

* link:/security/advisories/#2022[16 Security advisories] (stable year over year).
** Only 5 impacting Jenkins core (also stable).
* Around 400 CVEs published, which was more than all previous years.

=== Day to day:

* Approximately 580 SECURITY tickets handled.
** Which is ~20% of the total number of tickets since 2009.
* Around 70 hosting requests proactively audited (introduced in Q2 of 2022).
* Around 80 UI related PRs audited in Jenkins core (introduced in Q3 of 2022).

> We have even more CVEs with a name, such as link:/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965], to analyze and understand.

Author: Neither do I.

> We have even more CVEs with a name, such as link:/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965], to analyze and understand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have identified even more CVEs, such as link:/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965], to analyze and understand.
```
I changed the wording a bit, but I'm not absolutely certain this means the same.

> We have even more CVEs with a name, such as link:/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965], to analyze and understand.

Reviewer 3: I think that the transformation from @kmartens27 does not express the intent that @Wadeck had.  I think that Wadeck was illustrating that the security team analyzes many components and their reported vulnerabilities.  When a vulnerability actually affects Jenkins, they use the security process to address those vulnerabilities.

The specific example is a vulnerability in the Spring Framework.  Jenkins uses the Spring Framework.  However, that vulnerability did not affect Jenkins.  Wadeck, Damien, and I created a [blog post](https://www.jenkins.io/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/) to clearly state that Jenkins is not affected by the vulnerability.

The Jenkins security team does not publish a list of vulnerabilities in dependencies that do not impact Jenkins.  I believe that he was trying to note that the analysis of  vulnerabilities in dependencies costs time and effort in the security team.

> We have even more CVEs with a name, such as link:/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965], to analyze and understand.

Reviewer 4: "CVE with a name" it's when you have a marketing naming in addition to the CVE pure number reference, like Log4j, Spring4shell, etc.

As it was not clear, you can just remove the "with a name", to keep the rest.

> We have even more CVEs with a name, such as link:/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965], to analyze and understand.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Note there were even more more CVEs such as link:/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965] to analyze and understand but which didn't affected Jenkins.
```
@Wadeck WDYT of this formulation?

> We have even more CVEs with a name, such as link:/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965], to analyze and understand.

Reviewer 4: too many more :) otherwise it's fine

> We have even more CVEs with a name, such as link:/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965], to analyze and understand.

Reviewer 5: Or this one to keep the "name" notion:
```suggestion
We have to deal with even more CVEs with fancy name such as link:/blog/2022/03/31/spring-rce-CVE-2022-22965/[CVE-2022-22965] to analyze and understand but which didn't affected Jenkins.
```

* The link:https://jfrog.com/[JFrog] sponsored migration of link:https://repo.jenkins-ci.org/ui/[repo.jenkins-ci.org] to their new AWS platform, which provides improved performance for artifact downloads.
* Download mirrors (link:https://get.jenkins.io/war/2.386/jenkins.war?mirrorstats[get.jenkins.io]):
** A new download mirror for Jenkins was added in Asia. We want to thank link:https://servanamanaged.com/[Servana] for providing the mirror!
** The mirror mirror.gruenehoelle.nl, located in the Netherlands, that had been available previously has been decommissioned.
Thank you for the service!

* The Infrastructure team was also able to review and clean up unused Azure resources, leading to $1,000 of monthly savings!

[[platform]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/platform-modernization.png[Platform Modernization Update]

Contributed by: author:gounthar[Bruno Verachten]

Several upgrades were made to modernize the Jenkins platform.
These include:

* Java 11 is now required for Jenkins platform and plugin development.
** link:/blog/2022/12/14/require-java-11/[Build toolchain changes] arrived in parent pom 4.52.

> ** Java 11 provides a better baseline to work from, ensuring that the benefits, such as performance and memory improvements, are felt across the platform.

Author: I'm not so sure about this one, can anyone help?

> ** Java 11 provides a better baseline to work from, ensuring that the benefits, such as performance and memory improvements, are felt across the platform.

Reviewer: good catch here as well @lemeurherve ! thanks!!

** Jenkins now has more Java 11 installations than Java 8 installations of Jenkins core!
+
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/image4.png[image,width=403,height=275]
* Jenkins now fully supports Java 17.
** Previously, Java 17 was only available in a preview mode, but with the LTS release of link:/changelog-stable/#v2.361.1[2.361.1], Java 17 functionality is fully available in Jenkins.
* Migration of Linux installation packages from System V init to `systemd`.
** Users have requested this migration since 2017.

> The link:/blog/2022/03/25/systemd-migration/#motivation[goals of the migration] were achieved; to provide unification of service management implementation and better integration between Jenkins core and service management framework.

Author: I'm not so sure about this one, can anyone help?

> The link:/blog/2022/03/25/systemd-migration/#motivation[goals of the migration] were achieved; to provide unification of service management implementation and better integration between Jenkins core and service management framework.

Reviewer: @lemeurherve is spot on here, that should be a full colon

** Thanks to Basil Crow for his work on the migration.
* Staying on top of new backend and frontend dependency updates providing better testing, processing, and performance across Jenkins.
* Container image updates:
** Added new platform support, such as arm/v7 and aarch64.
** Removed support for ppc64le.
** Released the final, definitive version of the JDK8 containers.
** Deprecated the blueocean container image.
** Removed the deprecated install-plugins.sh script from Docker images.

> ** There were also "Exit" and "Restart" lifecycle changes in the Docker images.

Author: I'm not so sure about this one, can anyone help?

> ** There were also "Exit" and "Restart" lifecycle changes in the Docker images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** There were also "Exit" and "Restart" link:/blog/2022/05/27/docker-image-new-lifecycle/[lifecycle changes] added to the Docker images. As a result, users must ensure they have a Container Restart Policy in their container.
```
I hope this makes a bit more sense/provides context

> ** There were also "Exit" and "Restart" lifecycle changes in the Docker images.

Reviewer 5: LGTM

* The ANTLR 2 grammars and code were upgraded to ANTLR 4, making it easier for Jenkins to read and parse through various programing languages.
This means Jenkins core can now compile with more languages!
** Thanks to Alex Earl and Basil Crow for all of their hard work on completing this transition!
** This was included in Jenkins weekly release 2.376.
* Platform documentation
** A short link:/doc/administration/requirements/servlet-containers/#sidebar-content[guide] about web containers and servlet container support was created.

> * Platform in progress work:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Work In Progress:
```
(nit)

** For further development, experiments with RISC-V agents with JDK17/19/20 need to be performed.

> ** Additional experimenting with Windows 2022 server needs to be performed as well.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
** Additional experiments with Windows 2022 server needs to be performed as well.
```

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/Localization-simplification.png[Localization simplification Update]

=== CrowdIn for plugin localization

> Thanks to Alexander Brandes for helping get link:https://crowdin.com/enterprise[CrowdIn] connected with link:/doc/developer/crowdin/crowdin-integration/#setup-a-crowdin-project[Jenkins].

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Thanks to link:https://github.com/NotMyFault[Alexander Brandes] for helping get link:https://crowdin.com/enterprise[CrowdIn] connected with link:/doc/developer/crowdin/crowdin-integration/#setup-a-crowdin-project[Jenkins].
```
I would have thought he has an author page on jenkins.io, not yet apparently.

This will make the plugin localization process easier, allowing for any user to contribute to localizing plugin documentation.
link:https://crowdin.jenkins.io/[This page] shows the plugins that have localization work currently open.
It also provides some insight as to how many changes have been made and how many people have been contributing to the project.

image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/jenkins-crowdin.png[Jenkins Crowdin]

=== UTF-8 encoding

The Jenkins project also updated how it reads jelly files, making the transition to using UTF-8.
This was possible once the transition to Java 11 completed.
By utilizing UTF-8, developers and users can build more reliably and have modern property files read correctly.
This also aligns Jenkins' ability to read different types of property files, provided the encoding is the same.

[[modern-ui]]
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/ui_ux.png[User Experience Update]

Contributed by: author:markewaite[Mark Waite]

> Jenkins LTS and weekly releases in 2022 included significant user experience improvements thanks to the work of Jan Faracik, Tim Jacomb, Alex Brandes, Daniel Beck, and many others.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Jenkins LTS and weekly releases in 2022 included significant user experience improvements thanks to the work of author:janfaracik[Jan Faracik], author:timja[Tim Jacomb], link:https://github.com/NotMyFault[Alex Brandes], author:daniel-beck[Daniel Beck], and many others.
```

* Newer members and contributors to Jenkins are taking on the role of release lead for our LTS releases.
** This creates an open opportunity to work directly with Jenkins developers and provides the community another avenue to engage and contribute to Jenkins.

Throughout the year, the Jenkins project participated in:

* link:/sigs/gsoc/[Google Summer of Code 2022]
* link:/blog/2022/04/11/She-Code-Africa-contributhon/[She Code Africa Contributhon]
* link:/events/hacktoberfest/[Hacktoberfest 2022]

We collaborated with new Jenkins users all over the globe, improved many areas of Jenkins, and celebrated the successes of the community!

The Jenkins project is also excited to share what's to come in 2023:

* Jenkins in GSoC 2023 : link:/projects/gsoc/2023/project-ideas/[Call for Project Ideas] + link:/blog/2022/12/09/GSoC-the-gift-of-mentorship/[Call for Mentors].
** link:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k_sTkGtTix8[A Guide to Better Preparations] is a great resource for potential GSoC candidates, who want to get started and increase their chance of getting accepted into the program.
* https://fosdem.org/2023/[FOSDEM'23]: Jenkins will have a devstand at FOSDEM (Feb 4-5, 2023).

> * https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/20x[SCALE 20X]: Jenkins will have a booth presence at SCALE (March 9-12, 2023).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* https://www.socallinuxexpo.org/scale/20x[SCALE 20x]: Jenkins will have a booth presence at SCALE (March 9-12, 2023).
```

** Jenkins now has more Java 11 installations than Java 8 installations of Jenkins core!
+
image:/images/post-images/2023/01/12/jenkins-newsletter/image4.png[image,width=403,height=275]
* Jenkins now fully supports Java 17.
** Previously, Java 17 was only available in a preview mode, but with the LTS release of link:/changelog-stable/#v2.361.1[2.361.1], Java 17 functionality is fully available in Jenkins.
* Migration of Linux installation packages from System V init to `systemd`.
** Users have requested this migration since 2017.
The link:/blog/2022/03/25/systemd-migration/#motivation[goals of the migration] were achieved: to provide unification of service management implementation and better integration between Jenkins core and service management framework.
** Thanks to author:basil[Basil Crow] for his work on the migration.
* Staying on top of new backend and frontend dependency updates providing better testing, processing, and performance across Jenkins.
* Container image updates:
** Added new platform support, such as arm/v7 and aarch64.
** Removed support for ppc64le.
** Released the final, definitive version of the JDK8 containers.

> ** Deprecated the blueocean container image.

Reviewer 3: This has been discussed, but not completed.
```suggestion
```
